Streaming System
  - What?
    - Producuer/publisher/sender send event to consumer/buscribers/recipients
    - input source is boudless
    - Asynchronours 
    
    

#How to deliever streaming data

Message System
  use cases:
    - weather sensor peridically measurement
    - monitoring system 
    - user actions(order checkout application)

  Issues:
    1) if producer sending message faster than consumers can process?
      Solution:
        - drop message
        - put on the buffer queue/write to local disk(decrease throughput)
        - backpressure(flow control, blocking producer to send more of message)


    2) Node(MQ) is unavailble
        - durable write to disk or/and relicas
      

  Note that, not all system requires reliable MQ, for example weather sensor measurement data is not so important for every data to be sent


Message Broker/Message queue
  

Message Broker vs Database
  - when message gets deliveried, msg will be deleted
  - database supports index and message queue only support match topic or subscribed subset

  
Multiple consumers
  1) load balance
    each message is load balacner to ONE of consumers.
    if there are dependent relations existing in events, then load balance might be issue. because due to crash on one of consumer the message will re-send to other consumer
    this will break the original sequence.
    
    
  2) fan-out
    each message is delivered to all its consumers
    
  Note: we can combine load balance and fan-out 
  
Confirm and Re-send 
  - consumer could be unavailable any time. MQ use the acknowledgments(consumer must tell the MQ message is processed sucessfully)
  - when combineing with load balance on consumer. re-send behaviour could end up consumer consumer not consume events in original sequence that events produced


Partition logs
  log-baseed message brokers(Kafka)
    each partition on different machine and each partition has it's log
    a topic is group of partition with same kinds of message
    each message within the partition has mononic offset in the log (therefore. the message is sequence within a partition)
    
    
  log-based message brokers VS JMS/AMQP
    AMQP: after ackownledge -> message is deleted
    Log-based: after ackownledge -> offset is increased by one
    
    When message sequence is unimportant and allow to parallel processing USE JMS/AMQP
    When required high throughput and process quickly and event order matters, USE log-based message broker
    
  Load Balance also work
    one consumer on odd offset
    and another consumer on even offset 
    
    
    
  Consumer offset
    in log-based MQ, when message is consumed the message is not deleted, instead, consumer will increase its offset number
    all offset less then the consumer current offset => message processed
    
    if a consumer is unavailable then MQ will re-send to another consumer and new consumer will consumer the data from last offset.
    if other consumer already consume the data but not yet update to broker. it could end up the double process
    
    
  disk consumption
    in log-base MQ, use the circular buffer, so those log data will be recycle if out of the disk space.
    example 6TB disk space, throughput is 150MB/s. After 11 hours it will be full.
    
    
    
When consumer can not catch up with producer
  


  

  
